Now what is real estate tech?
How do we define it?
Well, just like in other spaces
of Fintech, but broadly,
there are all kinds of categories,
acronyms, names that come to bear.
We're calling it real estate tech, but
you could call it a RealTech, Prop Tech,
Proptology, RETech, CRE Tech,
which is commercial real estate tech.
And in part it's challenging
to put a specific
overarching name on it because the
segmentation of real estate technology and
how it's being manifested in startups,
or companies adopting technology
is bifurcated, either on the commercial
side or the non commercial side,
the commercial sector CRE or
residential sectors of the industry.
We're just going to call it real
estate tech broadly even though
there are very different players and
very different characteristics.
And we know of relatively few companies
that currently span both spaces.
So one way to think about
the industry given this challenge
is to rotate the definitions a bit and
focus either on being additive,
focusing on operational efficiency,
or on disruption,
by way of creating say new platforms.
And in fact,
maybe some examples could help illustrate.
One company that's been around for
quite sometime, and which many follow,
is a firm called Zillow.
It's not necessarily today, thought
of as a providing in revolution and
technology although I'm sure there
are those who would disagree.
And that's in part because
online platforms, portals,
aggregators for listing residential
properties or multifamily or
land as Zillow lists had been
on the scene since the 1990s,
and were developed in the late 1990s,
mid and late 1990s dot-com boom.
Zillow has combined a bunch
of different functions and
ultimately connected back to brokers,
expanding data access,
democratizing data access for
those who are buying or selling,
as well as connecting to brokers
to become a market leader.
Zillow, someone said the other day and
their Zillow's compatriots,
Realtor.com, Redfin and of course, others
that I'm leaving out, but which are also
leaders are useful to to understand
what your own properties are doing.
Or as they said their spouses spending
their time looking at their neighbors'
properties, giving a kind of
democratized view into regions,
into individual properties,
into being able to search and
ultimately aggregate
functionalities in a one-stop shop.
Another one on another side of
the business is a little bit more,
let's say transformative,
by way of introducing a brand
new methodology, WeWork.
And we'll talk more about
WeWork in a second.
It's often considered to be not
just a provider of real estate,
transitory real estate or real estate
services but a real estate tech company.
The concept of shared
workspaces either rented or
leased, I mean that's been around for
decades and decades.
And of course, it's a platform technology.
It's app based.
So it's not like it's
necessarily bringing brand new
deep learning technology to the game.
It's a transformation of
office space via the progress
of technology and also linking back into
social values and workplace methods.
We think WeWork, has been a category
leader on the commercial side as a result.
And of course,
we all know it now as a unicorn startup.